HTTP stands for hypertext transfer protocal,and it is the basics for almost all web applications.More specifically,
HTTP is the method computers and servers use to request and send information.For instance,when someone navigates to server
of something on their laptop their web browser sends an HTTP request to that servers for the content that appears on the web
page.then, servers send HTTP responses with the text,images and formatting that the browser display to the user

HTTP AND HTTP/2 DIFFERENCE


HTTP/2 solves several problems that the creators of HTTP/1.1 did not anticipate. In particular, HTTP/2 is much faster and more efficient than HTTP/1.1.
One of the ways in which HTTP/2 is faster is in how it prioritizes content during the loading process.

In the context of web performance, prioritization refers to the order in which pieces of content are loaded. Suppose a user visits a news website and 
navigates to an article. Should the photo at the top of the article load first? Should the text of the article load first? Should the banner ads load first?
Prioritization affects a webpage's load time.
For example, certain resources, like large JavaScript files, may block the rest of the page from loading if they have to load first.
More of the page can load at once if these render-blocking resources load last.

In addition, the order in which these page resources load affects how the user perceives page load time. If only behind-the-scenes content (like a CSS file) or 
content the user can't see immediately (like banner ads at the bottom of the page) loads first, the user will think the page is not loading at all. If the content
that's most important to the user loads first, such as the image at the top of the page, then the user will perceive the page as loading faster.

How does prioritization in HTTP/2 affect performance?


In HTTP/2, developers have hands-on, detailed control over prioritization. This allows them to maximize perceived and actual page load speed to a degree that was
not possible in HTTP/1.1.
HTTP/2 offers a feature called weighted prioritization. This allows developers to decide which page resources will load first, every time. In HTTP/2, 
when a client makes a request for a webpage,the server sends several streams of data to the client at once,nstead of sending one thing after another
This method of data delivery is known as multiplexing. Developers can assign each of these data streams a different weighted value, and the value 
tells the client which data stream to render first.



Multiplexing: HTTP/1.1 loads resources one after the other, so if one resource cannot be loaded, it blocks all the other resources behind it. In contrast,
 HTTP/2 is able to use a single TCP connection to send multiple streams of data at once so that no one resource block sany other resource.
 HTTP/2 does this by splitting data into binary-code messages and numbering these messages so that the client knows which stream each binary message belongs to.


Server push: Typically, a server only serves content to a client device if the client asks for it. However, this approach is not always practical for modern webpages,
 which often involve several dozen separate resources that the client must request. HTTP/2 solves this problem
by allowing a server to "push" content to a client before the client asks for it. The server also sends a message letting the client know what pushed content to expect 
– like if Bob had sent Alice a Table of Contents of his novel before sending the whole thing.

Header compression: Small files load more quickly than large ones. To speed up web performance, both HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 compress HTTP messages to make them smaller.
However, HTTP/2 uses a more advanced compression method called HPACK that eliminates redundant information in HTTP header packets. This eliminates a few bytes from
every HTTP packet. Given the volume of HTTP packets involved in loading even a single webpage, those bytes add up quickly, resulting in faster loading.

